So tell me how this works.
I'm awake with my
wife, and I close my eyes.
I open them.
I'm awake with my son.
And this has been happening
since the accident?
So you begin working on
one case here in reality,
and then, suddenly,
you begin working another case
there, in your dream.
It all feels
completely real to me.
You can't tell whether
you're awake or asleep
at this very moment?
Well, I can assure you,
Detective Britten,
this is not a dream.
That's exactly what
the other shrink said.
AWAKE
S01 Ep 03 - Guilty
Sync and corrected by dr.jackson
for www.addic7ed.com
Resync for WEB-DL by Norther
All done.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
You're always like a statue.
Never seen anyone
hold so still.
One thing I've learned
is patience.
See you next week.
Maybe not.
Maybe I'll get lucky.
Yeah? Who's going to give
you a kidney?
They don't put prisoners
on no donor lists.
A man can dream, can't he?
Yeah?
Keep dreaming.
Who do you think
you are, Cooper?
My mother has to wait
three months to see a doctor,
and here you are,
sucking the taxpayers' money.
All right, let's go.
Shut the door.
Come on.
Shut it!
I got nothing to lose, Perez.
You don't want to test a
man with nothing to lose.
Huh?
Shut it!
Nerves are good
before a tournament.
But you're going to do great.
Hey, Tara.
Just watching this,
uh, kid here...
the favorite
for the tournament.
He's pretty good.
Good?
He's ranked like
15th in the state.
I was telling Rex,
he can beat him
if he keeps him
behind the baseline...
I already have a coach, Dad.
Which is why I'm thinking you
really don't need to be there.
I don't need to be there.
- I want to be there.
- Why?
So you can watch me lose?
Oh.
- Sorry.
- Yeah.
Britten.
Since when do
you have a problem
with your dad
watching you play?
From where?
Uh-huh.
- His serve's, like, 100 miles an hour.
I mean, how am I
supposed to return that?
When did this happen?
Five hours ago.
CHP just flagged him
on a traffic camera
heading south on the 405.
Which means he may be
in the L.A. area.
Captain's putting together
a fugitive task force,
you know, to check out
all his known contacts.
Some story.
Guy's 14-year-old son ODs,
he shoots the dealer
and gets life in prison.
Wait.
Is this guy's name, uh...
Cooper... John Cooper?
Yeah. How'd you know that?
I made the arrest.
All you have to do is block it.
Get your racquet on the ball,
- and you'll be in the point.
- I'll see you there.
Something came up... work.
I'm sorry.
But, uh, if you make the final,
it's-it's Sunday, right?
I should be able
to be there by Sunday.
That'd be great.
Don't get so broken up.
Already said you didn't
have to come, so it's fine.
Call me when you get there.
Sign right here.
Jim.
Hey.
It's okay.
Good to see you, Michael.
Hey. How you holding up?
Yeah, I'm... I'm good.
Mm-hmm.
How's Rex?
Uh... he's
playing tennis.
He's in a tournament
this weekend.
I should be there, but, uh...
Bet he's good.
I remember how good Hannah was.
Kicked your ass.
So thanks for coming in
on such short notice.
Well, this was my case, too.
I would have been pissed
if you hadn't called me.
All right.
Let's get to the manhunt,
like the old days.
So... how did Cooper
pull this off?
Uh, he escaped after
off-site dialysis treatment.
Used a paralytic on a guard.
Think he got it
from the inside?
Grilling the staff right now.
Hey, you want to meet
your predecessor?
It's the guy I was stuck with
before I was stuck with you.
Jim, good to see
you again, man.
Good to see you, Bird.
You know each other?
We met.
Hannah's funeral.
- Hey.
- Hey there, sweaty man.
Hey, you want breakfast?
I want to take a shower first.
Hey, uh... hey, want
to shower with me?
Save water?
Ah, for the sake
of the environment.
David called.
Talked about the
fundraiser tomorrow.
I thought we told him
we weren't going.
Yeah, we did.
The board is hiring
a new crisis counselor,
and they're going to name
the position in Rex's honor.
Wow. That's nice.
Yeah.
Place was important
to him, you know?
Volunteered there
three times a week.
What?
I don't know, sweetie.
You sure you're up for it?
No. I just thought...
it's going to be hard,
but they're doing a whole
memorial program for Rex.
I feel like we should be there.
So how did you resolve
this with Hannah?
Well, how do you think?
We're going to the fundraiser.
And how do you feel about that?
How do I feel?
I-I just don't want her
to get hurt.
I want to protect her.
Have you considered
that maybe you want
to protect something else?
Like what?
This dream of your son
being alive.
This event that you're
so reluctant to attend,
it's all about
commemorating Rex.
But how can you expect
to memorialize a son whose death
you haven't truly accepted?
So, Rex, was that
really about not wanting
your dad to see you play,
or were you just giving
him a hard time?
If you don't want to talk
about it, that's okay, too.
He tries too hard.
He always wants to...
talk and hang out
like we're best friends
or something.
This is your complaint?
I just don't want to deal
with him right now.
He almost lost you.
I think you can handle
a few hugs
and some awkward conversation.
He's not the problem.
I am.
What does that mean?
It means I'm a terrible person.
You're not terrible;
You're a teenager. It's...
When it's just
the two of us and he's
asking me about my day,
making my dinner,
trying to talk about sports,
being nothing but nice to me...
I can't stop thinking that...
I wish I had her instead of him.
What kind of person
looks someone in the eye,
someone who's trying so hard...
and wishes they were dead
instead of someone else?
Every time he smiles at me,
every time he hugs me
and says he loves me...
I'm-I'm afraid
he's going to see that...
I didn't choose him.
That I want her instead.
Having those feelings
doesn't make you a bad person.
There's no right
way or wrong way
to feel about what's happened.
But whatever you're feeling,
you shouldn't have to
keep it to yourself.
So it's good
that you're telling me.
What the hell?
You okay?
I'm fine.
All right. Stay here.
Be right back.
It's not too bad.
Just a small dent.
Look, we really need
to be somewhere,
so I'd rather not wait around
to file a police report.
The guy who took
Rex was wearing, um,
a green sweatshirt
with a hood on it.
I-I just told the officer.
Tell me... what did he say?
He didn't say anything.
Not a word? Not a sound?
Before I knew what was happening,
he put this cloth over my mouth,
which had this chemical smell,
and... and that's it.
That's... that's all I remember.
No. No, you got to remember
something else.
- You're forgetting something, some detail.
- No, I'm not.
- I'm not.
- What car was he driving?
I don't know. I... Was he armed?
No. I don't... oh...
Tara, think.
Cooper wants something.
I need to know what.
- You're forgetting something.
- I'm sorry, Michael.
Michael, come on.
Sorry.
She told us
everything she knows.
Uh...
Yeah? What?
Tara's cell phone
hasn't turned up yet.
If Rex grabbed it, we might
be able to get a location.
Doesn't make any sense.
What does he want with Rex?
Wants to get back at you.
You were one of his
arresting officers.
So were you.
If he wanted revenge,
we'd be dead already.
Why didn't he come after us?
He... he wants something.
Well, whatever he wants,
we'll find out soon enough.
We're tapping your phones
in case he tries
to get contact.
Hey.
Cooper's dialysis nurse,
they gave her
a field polygraph... she failed.
Now, if she
helped Cooper, then...
Might know where Rex is.
I don't know what you want...
but you should know
that my father's a cop.
Pretty soon, there'll be a
lot of people looking for me.
So before you do something
you can't take back...
please just... let me go.
Okay?
Please.
Help!
Someone help me, please!
As God is my witness,
I wouldn't have helped him
if I'd known this would happen.
You're an accessory.
You understand that?
That means in the eyes of the
law, you're as guilty as Cooper.
And kidnapping carries a
minimum sentence of 20 years.
I swear,
I don't know
where he took your son,
so I can't tell you.
He never mentioned
a specific place?
What about a person he
was in contact with?
A friend, a family member?
He doesn't have anyone.
Not anymore.
I was the only one.
We spent three hours a day
together, twice a week.
He asked me to pray with him.
He said he was innocent.
Yeah.
I hope one day
you'll forgive me.
I'll pray for your son.
Where's Jim?
Coordinating the canvass.
Anyone Cooper's ever known,
anyone who visited him
in prison, we're
running them down.
The witness Tara finished
giving her statement.
She's at your desk.
She wants to talk to you.
Hey, Tara.
You okay?
He called.
Cooper... he left a message
on my home machine.
He called your house?
I called in my voice mail
and the message was there.
- When?
- Just now.
What'd he say?
He left his number,
and he wants you to call him.
Michael, Michael.
He said if you tell anyone,
he'll know, and he'll kill Rex.
This is Detective
Britten, badge 8277.
I need you to do
a reverse look-up.
310-555-1212.
Checking.
Just a moment, Detective.
Detective?
Yeah.
That number is a public phone
on McClintock Avenue
and Third Street.
No, that's the address
of the station I'm calling from.
It's also where the pay phone
is located, sir.
On the Northwest corner.
- Cooper?
- Who?!
- Where is he?
- Dude who gave me this?
- Yeah.
- Said he'd give me another 20
if I stood here
for a couple hours.
I told him fine, I ain't
got no prior engagements.
All right, get out of here.
- What about my other $20?
- Go!
Cooper?
Dad, it's me.
Rex?
Son, are you all right?
I'm in the desert,
some kind of shack,
- two hours from downtown...!
- Shut up!
Rex!
Shut up!
If you ever want to see
your son alive again,
do exactly what I tell you.
I'm listening.
10:00. 2211 Industrial Road
in San Bernardino.
Come alone.
I see anyone else...
I even think I see anyone else...
and your boy is gonna die.
You understand me?
I understand.
I'll do whatever you want.
But... don't hurt him.
Please.
Cooper?
Cooper?!
I'm sorry it's come to this.
No son should ever have to pay
for the sins of his father.
Stand up.
Stand up!
Where's my son?
Tell me where he is! Now!
Even if I tell you where he is,
by the time you figure out
if I'm telling you the truth,
your son will be dead
of dehydration.
You won't find him without me.
So take your hands off of me,
and let's talk.
What do you want?
Same thing I wanted
for the last ten years:
Justice.
Derek Bell deserved to die,
but I didn't kill him.
Just tell me what I have to do
to get my son back.
Prove who set me up.
Nobody set you up.
Somebody planted that gun
that night.
You just didn't
look close enough.
It took me ten years,
but I finally figured out
who killed Derek Bell
that night.
And you're going to help me
prove it.
- Drop your weapon!
- W-Wait.
No, no, no,
no! Hold it!
No!
No! No!
Cooper. Hey, Cooper.
They're not with me, I swear.
Cooper!
Tell me where my son is.
Please. Please tell me
where he is.
Suspect is down.
Where is he?
No. No.
I can't lose him again.
Come on!
Michael.
Get off me!
You just killed my son.
You just killed my son!
Let's get him out of here.
Why did you follow me?
Captain thought Cooper
might try to contact you.
Well, did he say anything?
I mean, anything we
can use to find Rex?
He was just about to.
About to what?
About to tell me.
How I can help him
prove his innocence.
Come on, Mike.
Innocent man
wouldn't kidnap Rex.
Look, don't do
this to yourself.
None of this is your fault.
Cooper was guilty.
Best thing you can
do for Rex right now
is to get a clear head.
There's nothing you can do here
that isn't already being done.
What, I should go home?
What are you suggesting,
I take a rest?
Hey, Vega, you near your desk?
Uh, I can be. Why?
I need you to access the
state prison database for me,
look up the status of an inmate.
His name is John Cooper.
What's this about?
Time sensitive, Vega.
Well, that doesn't
answer my question.
Just tell me if he's still
in Tehachapi Prison.
Name is John...
John Cooper. Yeah, I heard you
the first time.
Yeah, Cooper's still locked up.
What's going on?
I'm taking the day off.
Cover for me.
I'm going up to Tehachapi.
Because of this guy Cooper?
All right,
you're not telling me.
What am I supposed
to tell the captain?
Whatever you want.
And I'm supposed to
do that because...?
Because you're my partner.
You know, that's supposed to go
both ways, Michael.
I'll call you back.
- You're awake.
- Hey.
And dressed.
Wow, you were tossing
and turning last night.
Did you have a bad dream?
I didn't sleep
very well, either.
I think I was probably
obsessing about today.
Today?
I've been thinking.
Maybe one of us
should say something,
since they're doing
this thing for Rex.
Honey...
I'm not going to
make the fundraiser.
I'm really sorry.
You're not gonna make it?
What?
I can't, I... I, uh...
- That was Vega on the phone, there's a...
- But you...
been a child abduction.
The kid's about
the same age as Rex.
Michael...
- They called me.
- O-Okay, that's awful,
but you're not the only
detective on duty.
I know.
The fundraiser's two hours.
- They need me.
- They need you?
I need you!
I... Michael,
it's two hours. Okay?
You can go back to work after.
I-I...
Bad things are always going to
be happening to other people,
but s-something really
bad happened to us.
I know.
So? Be with me today.
Honey, I can't.
I...
My son started volunteering
here about a year ago,
and, honestly, he did it
because of the community
service requirement at school.
At first, all my husband and I
heard, over and over, was...
"Why do I have to do this?"
I think he was counting down
days till he could go back to
hanging out with his friends
after school,
instead of manning
the phones here.
But eventually, and without us
even really noticing,
he-he stopped complaining.
And one night, Rex didn't come
home when he was supposed to,
and... and he wasn't
answering his phone.
I was so worried.
I found him here...
two hours after
his shift had ended,
and he was on the phone with
some 14-year-old girl
who was depressed and
thinking about hurting herself.
I stood behind Rex
for close to an hour,
and I watched him...
slowly convince this
girl to get help.
Here was this person that I had
held in my arms as a baby...
who had just saved
someone's life.
And this wave of pride,
I felt it.
And I... I grabbed him
and I hugged him and...
I started crying.
I couldn't stop.
And Rex just said
I was embarrassing him,
and he asked me to leave.
So I left...
with a gift that
I'll always carry with me.
That night... in this room...
Rex showed me
who he really was...
and he gave me a glimpse of
the man he would have become.
Thank you
for remembering my son today...
and for being a part of
this wonderful place.
Hey, hon, it's me.
I hope it's going okay.
I'm sorry I'm not there.
You know, I'm sure it-it's not
what you want to hear right now,
but...
I'm doing the best I can.
Whoever finds this...
please get it to my father.
He's a detective
with the LAPD, Michael Britten.
I was hoping to talk to him
face-to-face, but...
it's starting to look like that
may not happen.
No, don't die!
Except for my ex-wife,
you're the last person I ever
expected to lay eyes on again.
I'm here because after
your appeal was rejected,
I got a call from
an anonymous source.
He said he was familiar
with your case
and he had evidence that could
prove your innocence.
Really?
Now, if I got it wrong
about you,
I'd like a chance
to make things right.
Make it right?
Okay.
How about you giving me back
the last ten years of my life?
Can you do that?
No, but if you can corroborate
what my source told me,
I can get you out of here.
Now, he mentioned something
about a place in the desert.
What can you tell
me about that?
Man, let me tell you something.
I don't know
what this is all about,
but I know
when I'm being played.
Let's just say
I do know where this place is.
What's it got to do with proving
I'm innocent?
You wouldn't believe me
if I told you.
Just like you don't believe me.
You still believe that I killed
Derek Bell, don't you?
And the reason
you don't believe me is
because you don't want to.
Because it means that you have
to live with what you did to me.
But I'm good, man.
I-I don't need you
to believe me anymore.
I just need you
to get me out of here.
And after you do that,
I'll tell you about this place
in the desert.
Well, it may be
too late by then.
Too late for who, man?
All right, say you
didn't kill Derek Bell.
Tell me who you think did.
For the longest time,
I thought it was you.
Yeah.
See, I figured it had
to be a cop, right?
Someone who could control
the evidence.
Yeah. You know who
I'm talking about.
Hello?
Jim, hey, it's me, Michael.
Michael, hey,
good to hear your voice.
How are you?
Oh, you know, still chasing
bad guys.
How's Hannah?
We're hanging in there.
Listen, gee, I apologize.
I, uh, I've been meaning
to reach out,
invite you over for a beer.
Sounds good.
What about later?
Yeah, that'd be great.
Come on over.
- Michael!
- Jim.
Hey.
It's been way too long.
- Yeah.
- Please.
What's with the hand?
Ah, it's nothing.
A little accident at the gym.
Margaret's been after me
to lose ten pounds.
She here? Margaret?
No, sorry. You missed her.
She sends you her love.
Can I get you a beer?
To be honest with you,
I'm not really here
on a social call.
Something with Hannah?
No, Hannah's good.
Oh, thank God.
We have to talk, Jim,
about, uh... John Cooper.
He's doing life
for killing Derek Bell.
You remember.
Bell was holding a million
dollars in cash that night,
and then I remember we recovered
less than $100,000.
So... I did the math,
and here I am.
You killed Bell,
you took the money,
put the gun in Cooper's house.
Where is this coming from?
I got some of it from Cooper,
from other places.
I put the pieces together.
Listen, you're taking the word
of a condemned murderer
over mine.
Jim, you got me all wrong.
I'm not here to bust you
and I'm not here to judge you.
I don't care if Cooper rots
in jail the rest of his life.
I just want what's mine.
People get rich while people
who put their lives
on the line
like us get next to nothing.
I want my share.
Your share?
That was our bust.
That is our money.
Michael, I didn't frame anyone.
There is no money.
None of this is real.
I don't think I'm making
myself clear, Jim.
I'm... I'm not giving
you a choice.
You pay me, or I will
go to Internal Affairs.
You can go talk
to them all you want,
but you're only gonna end up
looking crazy.
And from what I understand,
you don't need much help.
I'm sorry I said that.
I talked to Captain Harper.
She told me what's been going
on since the accident;
All the erratic behavior.
I didn't realize
how serious it is.
That's not what's going
on here, and you know it.
She's got you seeing
a psychiatrist.
She assigned you a new partner
to keep an eye on you.
Are you cutting me in or not?
Listen to what you're saying.
Look at yourself.
Now, we need to
get you some help.
All right, that's enough.
We're done.
Tell you what. Let's call
your doctor, huh?
We could figure
this out together.
Here's what I'm gonna do.
I'm gonna walk out the door,
and I'm gonna go straight
to the captain.
Next that will happen, they'll
subpoena your bank records,
and you spend the rest
of your life in prison
like Cooper.
Now is that what you want?
I am your friend.
I came here to give you a chance,
but it's up to you to take it.
It's your call.
There isn't much left.
Amazing how fast
the money goes...
but what's left... it's yours.
If I could,
I'd take back everything
that happened that night, but...
the money was there,
I pulled the trigger, and there
was just no turning back.
Michael?
Michael, where are you going?
I told you
I'd give you the money.
Sir, you're under arrest
for the murder of Derek Bell.
You have the right
to remain silent.
Anything you say can
and will be used against you.
You have the right
to an attorney.
Hey, for a minute,
he had me wondering
if you were making
this whole thing up.
You weren't the only one.
This is Detective
Michael Britten.
I need to speak
to Warden Gutierrez.
Tell him it's an emergency.
Warden, I need you to put John
Cooper on the phone right now.
Still not sure why you can't
tell me who tipped you
on Cooper's place in the desert.
Not allowed to give up
the source.
Not allowed?
It's complicated.
This source the same reason
you got IA talking to Mayhew?
Uh-huh. I got a friend over there.
Heard they was pulling him in,
looking into his bank accounts.
They're saying Mayhew's
the one who
killed Derek Bell
and took his money.
Yeah.
That means Cooper was innocent.
Rex! Rex!
Inside! Rex! Watch out.
Rex!
Rex, can you hear me?
Dad... Rex?
Get in there.
Rex, I'm a paramedic.
I'm here to help you.
Do you understand
what I'm saying?
Sorry, son.
Skins are real hot.
You're gonna be all right.
Backing out pretty good.
Give me a line.
Stay with us, buddy.
I'm here with you now.
Here you go.
You know,
at some unconscious level,
you might have always suspected
that Cooper was innocent.
Cooper's failed appeal coincided
with your son's death,
which caused you to create
a dream in which you had
to prove Cooper's innocence.
Or you would have to relive
the loss of your son.
If I had known, if I had
suspected on any level
there was something wrong
with the Cooper case,
I would have done something
by myself a long time ago.
But you didn't, and it's
understandable why.
People naturally flee
from their own guilt.
They push it aside.
This dream was a way of forcing
you to do the right thing.
It's a kind of... reckoning
for your conscience.
An innocent man lost a decade
of his life
because I couldn't see
the truth.
I don't find that
particularly admirable.
So you blame yourself
for wrongfully sending Cooper
to prison,
and for him ultimately dying?
Of course I blame myself.
It's my fault.
I would argue it is
Mayhew's fault
more than it is yours.
The point is, you felt guilty.
And to alleviate that guilt,
you created a dream
where you freed Cooper.
If that's the case,
it didn't work.
I don't feel any better
about what happened to him.
Isn't that interesting?
Even when you go so far
as to dream a world
where everything turns out
all right,
you're still plagued
with guilt.
I'd like you to ask yourself
something, Detective.
Where do you think
this inability
to forgive yourself comes from?
Hi.
How's he doing?
He's, he's okay.
Doctors say he can go home
tomorrow.
Maybe the day after.
That's great news.
Yeah.
I keep thinking
if you hadn't found him...
Hey, I did.
If you're still blaming yourself
for any of this, forget it.
If it's anybody's fault,
it's mine, all right?
Come here.
It's okay.
Um... I came by
to give you this.
It's my phone.
The, uh, crime scene
guys found it
and returned it to me.
Turns out Rex recorded himself
out there.
You should hear
what he had to say.
Thanks.
If you're watching this,
I'm guessing you're pretty
messed up about what happened.
But there's some things I really
need to tell you...
which as it turns out, I've...
had a lot of time to think
about.
I know things haven't been
so easy between us lately,
that I haven't been...
communicating.
I think it's maybe because
I was afraid
of what I might say...
because of how angry I was...
about losing Mom.
Mom was...
she was really what held
all of us together.
Without her,
I didn't know what to do.
And I think you kind of felt
the same way, too.
But I want you to know...
and this is really important...
I don't blame you
for what happened,
for her being gone.
So please don't blame yourself.
Did you find him?
The boy who was kidnapped?
You find him?
Yeah. Yeah, we did.
Is he gonna be okay?
Yeah... I think so.
I thought about you all day.
I really wanted to be there...
be with you.
I know.
I'm sorry.
So... how'd it go?
It was hard...
until it wasn't.
There was just so much love.
And I actually felt like he,
he was in the room with me.
I just kept wishing
you were there,
so you could know
what that feels like.
We haven't talked
about it in awhile...
but I do think there's
something else after this life.
I want you to know I love you.
And that's what I'm going
to hold onto...
until I see you again.
Sync and corrected by dr.jackson
for www.addic7ed.com
Resync for WEB-DL by Norther
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org